Update AS4 Plugin Docs (#6873)
apollographql/apollo-server: docs/source/api/plugin/inline-trace.mdx

---
title: "API Reference: Inline trace plugin"
api_reference: true
---

## Using the plugin

> 📣 **New in Apollo Server 4**: error details are not included in traces by default. For more details, see [Error Handling](../../data/errors/#masking-and-logging-errors).

This article documents the options for the `ApolloServerPluginInlineTrace` plugin, which you can import from `@apollo/server/plugin/inlineTrace`.

This plugin enables your GraphQL server to include encoded performance and usage traces inside responses. This is primarily designed for use with [Apollo Federation](/federation/metrics/). Federated subgraphs use this plugin and include a trace in the `ftv1` GraphQL response extension if requested to do so by the Apollo gateway. The gateway requests this trace by passing the HTTP header `apollo-federation-include-trace: ftv1`.

> Apollo Server installs this plugin by default in all federated subgraphs, with its default configuration. Apollo Server check whether it it is a federated subgraph if the schema it is serving includes a field `_Service.sdl: String`.  You typically do not have to install this plugin yourself; you only need to do so if you want to provide non-default configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apollo Server installs this plugin by default in all federated subgraphs, with its default configuration. Apollo Server inspects whether or not the schema it is serving includes a field `_Service.sdl: String` to determine if it is a federated subgraph. You typically do not have to install this plugin yourself; you only need to do so if you want to provide non-default configuration.
```

If you want to configure the `ApolloServerPluginInlineTrace` plugin, import it and pass it to your `ApolloServer` constructor's `plugins` array:

<MultiCodeBlock>

```ts
import { ApolloServer } from '@apollo/server';
import { ApolloServerPluginInlineTrace } from '@apollo/server/plugin/inlineTrace';

const server = new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
  plugins: [
    ApolloServerPluginInlineTrace({
      includeErrors: { transform: (err) => (err.message.match(SENSITIVE_REGEX) ? null : err ) },
    }),
  ],
});
```

</MultiCodeBlock>

If you don't want to use the inline trace plugin even though your schema defines `_Service.sdl: String`, you can explicitly disable it with the `ApolloServerPluginInlineTraceDisabled` plugin:

> ```js

Reviewer: ts / MultiCodeBlock here?

Author: Oh oops! That one slipped by me, thanks!

  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Name /<br/>Type</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

<tbody>

<tr>
<td>

###### `includeErrors`

`Object`
</td>
<td>

Provide this object to modify GraphQL operation errors before your server reports those errors in traces to Apollo Studio. Valid options are described in [Valid `includeErrors` object signatures](#valid-includeerrors-object-signatures).

The default value is `{ masked: true }`, which means error messages are masked and extensions are omitted. This is a security measure to prevent sensitive data from potentially reaching Apollo servers.
</td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

#### Valid `includeErrors` object signatures

<table class="field-table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Object</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

<tbody>

<tr>
<td>

###### `{ masked: true }`

</td>
<td>

If you provide this object, error messages are masked and extensions omitted in the traces sent to Apollo Studio.  This is the default behavior.

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>

###### `{ unmodified: true }`

</td>
<td>

If you provide this object, all error messages and extensions are included in traces

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>

> ###### `{ transform: (err: GraphQLError) => { GraphQLError | null }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### `{ transform: (err: GraphQLError) => GraphQLError | null }`
```
